content/about/index.md, before:

---
title: "About Me"
date: 2020-01-18T21:28:00-05:00
draft: false
hideLastModified: true
showInMenu: true
# no need for the "summary" parameter as it is not displayed in any previews
---

# Summary

I am a technology professional with an extensive background in IT operations. Recently I've been actively involved in transforming the culture and processes where I work to embrace agile software development and DevOps philosophies. Personally I've considered myself a DevOps advocate since 2014 when I started getting into Linux heavily and exploring open source tools. Around that time I set up an OpenStack all-in-one server and I've been hooked on Cloud Ops, Infrastructure as Code, and automation ever since. In the past two years I've been learning Java and Python to extend my skillset towards fully customized solutions.

## Early Life

When I was 5 years old, my father bought a refurbished Apple Macintosh Plus and thus we became a "Mac family" for most of my childhood. I became endlessly fascinated with computers and especially video games; I played mostly Blizzard games (since they were the few AAA titles that were Mac-compatible), but I was jealous of other people who could play all those other games on "Windows." When I turned 12, I purchased a used Cyrix 100MHz system from my uncle and learned how to install Windows 95, upgrade hardware (I quickly got rid of that garbage Cyrix for a Pentium 233 w/MMX!), and finally play some _real_ games! Later I bought a Dell XPS desktop for my 14th birthday, but after realizing I could've built my own PC with better specs for less money, I decided to never buy a retail desktop ever again. Over the past twenty years I've built dozens of PCs for family, friends, and myself.

My current PC is already a few years old now, but it suits my needs:

* i5-6600K (lightly overclocked)
* EVGA GeForce GTX 1060 3GB
* 16GB RAM
* Samsung 850 EVO 250GB SSD
* Hitachi 1.5TB RAID1

I'll be building a new PC this year with my wife (she wants to learn how) and we're going to use AMD for the CPU this go around. The new Ryzen chips look sick!

## Education and Career

I originally went to college for Mechanical Engineering, which I excelled in, but on a whim I took an Accounting course as an elective. I loved it so much that I decided to change my major. I completed an Associate's degree in Accounting in 2005 and my aspiration in my early twenties was to be a CFO someday. Not too long thereafter though I went through a pretty rough part of my life; I was working full-time (with a 1 hour commute each way) while still going to school full-time, and I just couldn't keep up. I ended up dropping out of the University of Kansas in 2007 with only 40 or so credit hours left to graduate. Although I wanted to eventually finish, I bounced around jobs and cities for several years before catching a break: in January 2010, I took on the role of PC technician at The Ohio State University, which looking back on now was the start to what has been a very fulfilling career.

Since then I've gained exposure to nearly every part of IT operations, specializing in systems and network engineering. But that unfinished degree was always gnawing in the back of my mind.

In 2017, I made the decision to finish my degree, and I will be graduating _summa cum laude_ at Cleveland State University this May 2020 with a BBA in Management (and a minor in Accounting).

## Current Interests

These days I am most interested in cloud computing technology and software development, especially everything DevOps. I have played around in all three major cloud platforms, but most of my time has been spent in Azure. Kubernetes and Docker are quite fun to use and we've been evaluating potential use cases at work recently which is pretty cool. I'm currently studying for AZ-103 Azure Administrator and Certified Kubernetes Administrator. Additionally, I have been learning how to code, working mostly with Java, but also using Python to automate some basic networking tasks.

## How This Website Was Built

I intend to write a full blog entry detailing how I created this website, but for now here is the basic overview. 

For various reasons, I didn't want to create a WordPress blog. Mainly I wanted to create something that was easier to manage. I discovered [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) after dabbling with [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/). I messed around with several different themes before settling on with [ReFresh](https://themes.gohugo.io/hugo-refresh/). ReFresh is easily customizable, and I quite like the look of it.

I use Git along with GitHub so that I can easily make changes whether I am at home or working from my laptop. The source files are a public [repo](https://github.com/grossmeyer/glennmeyer.dev) if you are curious how the website is put together.

Deployment is handled automatically whenever I push changes to GitHub by using [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/) which then uses a webhook to notify [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) of the update. My domain name is registered with [Namecheap](https://www.namecheap.com/). I'm considering implementing [Forestry](https://forestry.io) as a potential next step for CMS, although I'm not sure I'll need it.

I use [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) for all of my editing as it makes working with Markdown files very straightforward. [Solarized Dark theme](https://ethanschoonover.com/solarized/) for life!

[Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/) is a package manager for Windows that makes installing programs like Hugo a snap.

My avatar was created using the Google Chrome extension [Avatar Maker](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/avatar-maker/ofknlbikfofijlcjkfcihomkedmchfbn?hl=en-US).

## Resources that helped me learn Hugo

I learned the basics by watching these videos by [Mike Dane](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLAZ4kZ9dFpOnyRlyS-liKL5ReHDcj4G3).

Picked up a few extra ideas from [Chris Stayte](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c7vpcqA6SEQ).

Netlify has a [nice tutorial](https://learn.netlify.com/en/basics/) to get started.

The [offical Hugo documentation](https://gohugo.io/documentation/) is great for going deep on how Hugo works and general reference.

Found random helpful stuff on the [Hugo Discourse Forums](https://discourse.gohugo.io/).

## Future Ideas for this website

Obviously the major missing feature to this website is the lack of a real blog. I wanted to get this website up and running as a first major step, which is obviously done! I'm busy writing content to being posting and I certainly have plenty of topics I would like to write on. My goal is to post one entry per week beginning in March 2020.

As for the design of the website itself, it seems like a small thing, but I would like to match my \<a> tags to the green color scheme that I currently have customized. I've spent several hours crawling through the CSS for ReFresh, but haven't found a clean way to target just that. If anyone knows how or where to change that, please let me know!

About the only thing I don't like about the ReFresh theme is that there isn't a simple way to navigate back to the homepage except by hitting the back arrow or typing in the address manually. Ideally there would be a Home link in the top right that would take you back to the start. Not a big deal, but it bothers me.

Commit message:

Updated how this website was built

content/about/index.md, after:

---
title: "About Me"
date: 2020-01-18T21:28:00-05:00
draft: false
hideLastModified: true
showInMenu: true
# no need for the "summary" parameter as it is not displayed in any previews
---

# Summary

I am a technology professional with an extensive background in IT operations. Recently I've been actively involved in transforming the culture and processes where I work to embrace agile software development and DevOps philosophies. Personally I've considered myself a DevOps advocate since 2014 when I started getting into Linux heavily and exploring open source tools. Around that time I set up an OpenStack all-in-one server and I've been hooked on Cloud Ops, Infrastructure as Code, and automation ever since. In the past two years I've been learning Java and Python to extend my skillset towards fully customized solutions.

## Early Life

When I was 5 years old, my father bought a refurbished Apple Macintosh Plus and thus we became a "Mac family" for most of my childhood. I became endlessly fascinated with computers and especially video games; I played mostly Blizzard games (since they were the few AAA titles that were Mac-compatible), but I was jealous of other people who could play all those other games on "Windows." When I turned 12, I purchased a used Cyrix 100MHz system from my uncle and learned how to install Windows 95, upgrade hardware (I quickly got rid of that garbage Cyrix for a Pentium 233 w/MMX!), and finally play some _real_ games! Later I bought a Dell XPS desktop for my 14th birthday, but after realizing I could've built my own PC with better specs for less money, I decided to never buy a retail desktop ever again. Over the past twenty years I've built dozens of PCs for family, friends, and myself.

My current PC is already a few years old now, but it suits my needs:

* i5-6600K (lightly overclocked)
* EVGA GeForce GTX 1060 3GB
* 16GB RAM
* Samsung 850 EVO 250GB SSD
* Hitachi 1.5TB RAID1

I'll be building a new PC this year with my wife (she wants to learn how) and we're going to use AMD for the CPU this go around. The new Ryzen chips look sick!

## Education and Career

I originally went to college for Mechanical Engineering, which I excelled in, but on a whim I took an Accounting course as an elective. I loved it so much that I decided to change my major. I completed an Associate's degree in Accounting in 2005 and my aspiration in my early twenties was to be a CFO someday. Not too long thereafter though I went through a pretty rough part of my life; I was working full-time (with a 1 hour commute each way) while still going to school full-time, and I just couldn't keep up. I ended up dropping out of the University of Kansas in 2007 with only 40 or so credit hours left to graduate. Although I wanted to eventually finish, I bounced around jobs and cities for several years before catching a break: in January 2010, I took on the role of PC technician at The Ohio State University, which looking back on now was the start to what has been a very fulfilling career.

Since then I've gained exposure to nearly every part of IT operations, specializing in systems and network engineering. But that unfinished degree was always gnawing in the back of my mind.

In 2017, I made the decision to finish my degree, and I will be graduating _summa cum laude_ at Cleveland State University this May 2020 with a BBA in Management (and a minor in Accounting).

## Current Interests

These days I am most interested in cloud computing technology and software development, especially everything DevOps. I have played around in all three major cloud platforms, but most of my time has been spent in Azure. Kubernetes and Docker are quite fun to use and we've been evaluating potential use cases at work recently which is pretty cool. I'm currently studying for AZ-103 Azure Administrator and Certified Kubernetes Administrator. Additionally, I have been learning how to code, working mostly with Java, but also using Python to automate some basic networking tasks.

## How This Website Was Built

I intend to write a full blog entry detailing how I created this website, but for now here is the basic overview. 

For various reasons, I didn't want to create a WordPress blog. Mainly I wanted to create something that was easier to manage. I discovered [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) after dabbling with [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/). Hugo is very fast and has a great local development workflow. After experimenting with Hugo for a couple hours, I realized it suited my needs quite well and I decided to commit to learning how to deploy my website with it. I built several versions of my website using a variety of different themes before settling on [ReFresh](https://themes.gohugo.io/hugo-refresh/). ReFresh is easily customizable, and I quite like the sharp, clean look of it.

I use Git along with GitHub so that I can easily make changes whether I am at home or working from my laptop. The source files are a public [repo](https://github.com/grossmeyer/glennmeyer.dev) if you are curious how the website is put together.

Deployment is handled automatically whenever I push changes to GitHub by using [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/) which then uses a webhook to notify [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) of the update. My domain name is registered with [Namecheap](https://www.namecheap.com/). I'm considering implementing [Forestry](https://forestry.io) as a potential next step for CMS, although I'm not sure I need it just yet.

I use [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) for all of my editing as it makes working with Markdown files very straightforward. [Solarized Dark theme](https://ethanschoonover.com/solarized/) for life!

[Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/) is a package manager for Windows that makes installing programs like Hugo a snap.

My avatar was created using the Google Chrome extension [Avatar Maker](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/avatar-maker/ofknlbikfofijlcjkfcihomkedmchfbn?hl=en-US).

## Resources that helped me learn Hugo

I learned the basics by watching these videos by [Mike Dane](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLAZ4kZ9dFpOnyRlyS-liKL5ReHDcj4G3).

Picked up a few extra ideas from [Chris Stayte](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c7vpcqA6SEQ).

Netlify has a [nice tutorial](https://learn.netlify.com/en/basics/) to get started.

The [offical Hugo documentation](https://gohugo.io/documentation/) is great for going deep on how Hugo works and general reference.

Found random helpful stuff on the [Hugo Discourse Forums](https://discourse.gohugo.io/).

## Future Ideas for this website

Obviously the major missing feature to this website is the lack of a real blog. I wanted to get this website up and running as a first major step, which is obviously done! I'm busy writing content to being posting and I certainly have plenty of topics I would like to write on. My goal is to post one entry per week beginning in March 2020.

As for the design of the website itself, it seems like a small thing, but I would like to match my \<a> tags to the green color scheme that I currently have customized. I've spent several hours crawling through the CSS for ReFresh, but haven't found a clean way to target just that. If anyone knows how or where to change that, please let me know!

About the only thing I don't like about the ReFresh theme is that there isn't a simple way to navigate back to the homepage except by hitting the back arrow or typing in the address manually. Ideally there would be a Home link in the top right that would take you back to the start. Not a big deal, but it bothers me.
